---
title: "Teaching Assistant - SB2.1 Foundation of Statistical Inference"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate course"
excerpt: "Understanding how data can be interpreted in the context of a statistical model. Working knowledge and understanding of key-elements of model-based statistical inference, including awareness of similarities, relationships and differences between Bayesian and frequentist approaches."
university: "University"
semester: "Michaelmas 2019"
---


## Learning Objective
Understanding how data can be interpreted in the context of a statistical model. Working knowledge and understanding of key-elements of model-based statistical inference, including awareness of similarities, relationships and differences between Bayesian and frequentist approaches.

## Course Synopsis
- Exponential families: Curved and linear exponential families; canonical parametrization; likelihood equations. Sufficiency: Factorization theorem; sufficiency in exponential families.
  
- Frequentist estimation: unbiasedness; method of moments; the Cramer-Rao information inequality; Rao-Blackwell theorem: Lehmann-Scheffé Theorem and Rao-Blackwellization; Statement of complete sufficiency for Exponential families.

- The Bayesian paradigm: likelihood principal; subjective probability; prior to posterior analysis; asymptotic normality; conjugacy; examples from exponential families. Choice of prior distribution: proper and improper priors; Jeffreys’ and maximum entropy priors. Hierarchical Bayes models.

- Decision theory: risk function; Minimax rules, Bayes rules. Point estimators and admissibility of Bayes rules. The James-Stein estimator, shrinkage estimators and Empirical Bayes. Hypothesis testing as decision problem.

<!-- permalink: /teaching/course1 -->